OSDOCS-1006 Bring forward necessary managing images content (#21711)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/images-triggering-updates-imagestream-changes-kubernetes.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * openshift_images/managing_images/triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes.adoc

[id="images-triggering-updates-imagestream-changes-kubernetes_{context}"]
= Kubernetes resources

> Unlike DeploymentConfigs and BuildConfigs, which include as part of their API definition a set of fields for controlling triggers, Kubernetes resources do not have fields for triggering. Instead, {product-title} uses annotations to allow users to request triggering.

Author: Need to follow up on style changes for DeploymentConfigs, BuildConfigs, CronJobs, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, ReplicaSets, and ReplicationControllers.

The annotation is defined as follows:

[source,json]
----
Key: image.openshift.io/triggers
Value: array of triggers, where each item has the schema:
[
 {
   "from" :{
     "kind": "ImageStreamTag", // required, the resource to trigger from, must be ImageStreamTag
     "name": "example:latest", // required, the name of an image stream tag
     "namespace": "myapp",     // optional, defaults to the namespace of the object
   },
   // required, JSON path to change
   // Note that this field is limited today, and only accepts a very specific set
   // of inputs (a JSON path expression that precisely matches a container by ID or index).
   // For pods this would be "spec.containers[?(@.name='web')].image".
   "fieldPath": "spec.template.spec.containers[?(@.name='web')].image",
   // optional, set to true to temporarily disable this trigger.
   "paused": "false"
 },
 ...
]
----

> When {product-title} sees one of the core Kubernetes resources that contains both a pod template, for example only CronJobs, deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, jobs, ReplicaSets, ReplicationControllers, and pods, and this annotation, it attempts to update the object using the image currently associated with the image stream tag referenced by trigger. The update is performed against the `fieldPath` specified.

Author: I'm not sure either - I don't know if it's supported by OpenShift.

<2> `kind` is the resource to trigger from must be `ImageStreamTag`. This field is required.
<3> `name` must be the name of an image stream tag. This field is required.
<4> `namespace` defaults to the namespace of the object. This field is optional.
<5> `fieldpath` is the JSON path to change. This field is limited, and only accepts a very specific set of inputs, a JSON path expression that precisely matches a container by ID or index. For pods the JSON path would be "spec.containers[?(@.name='web')].image". This field is required.
<6>  `paused` defaults to `false`. Set to true to temporarily disable this trigger. This field is optional

When {product-title} sees one of the core Kubernetes resources that contains both a pod template and this annotation, it attempts to update the object using the image currently associated with the image stream tag referenced by trigger. The update is performed against the `fieldPath` specified.

Examples of core Kubernetes resources that can contain both a pod template and annotation include:

* `CronJobs`
* Deployments
* `StatefulSets`
* `DaemonSets`
* Jobs
* `ReplicationControllers`

> * Pods

Reviewer: I'd make this a separate concept module instead of the intro to a procedure.

.Procedure

* Trigger Kubernetes resources by updating the image stream tag.

> ** In the following example the trigger fires when the `example:latest` image stream tag is updated. Upon firing, the pod template image reference for the `web` container is updated with a new image value for the object. If the pod template is part of a deployment definition, the change to the pod template automatically triggers a deployment, effectively rolling out the new image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the following example, the trigger fires when the `example:latest` image stream tag is updated. Upon firing, the pod template image reference for the `web` container is updated with a new image value for the object. If the pod template is part of a deployment definition, the change to the pod template automatically triggers a deployment, which rolls out the new image.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
image.openshift.io/triggers=[{"from":{"kind":"ImageStreamTag","name":"example:latest"},"fieldPath":"spec.template.spec.containers[?(@.name='web')].image"}]
----

> * Trigger Kubernetes resources by entering the `oc set triggers` command.

Reviewer: I think that these two options should be better fleshed out and presented in separate modules. They aren't sequential steps, so I don't think they belong in the same module.
